<b dict-key="a ad">a (ad):</b> (<i>general sense</i>) to, indicating that toward which there is
movment, tendency, or position, with or without arrival; opposed to <b dict-key="from">from</b> (<b
dict-key="de,ek">de, ek</b>) (cf. <b dict-key="vers,til">vers, til</b>); <b dict-key="il iris a la
kirko">il iris a la kirko:</b> he went to (the) church; <b dict-key="il venas de Paris a London">il
venas de Paris a London:</b> he is on his way from Paris to London; <b dict-key="la hundo jetis su
a la kato">la hundo jetis su a la kato:</b> the dog sprang at the cat; <b dict-key="del de la esto
al ad la westo">del (de la) esto al (ad la) westo:</b> from (the) east to (the) west; <b
dict-key="de tempo a tempo">de tempo a tempo:</b> from time to time; <b dict-key="de un dio a l">de
un dio a l'altra:</b> from one day to another, from day to day; <b dict-key="de la supro a l">de la
supro a l'infro:</b> from top to bottom; (<i>dative: indirect object</i>) <b dict-key="donez a me
la bastono">donez a me la bastono:</b> give me the stick; <b dict-key="il parolis ad el">il parolis
ad el:</b> he spoke to her; (<i>object of action, thought, desire</i>) <b dict-key="il elevas su a
la richeso e a la honori">il elevas su a la richeso e a la honori:</b> he is rising to weather and
honors; <b dict-key="atencema a la diskurso">atencema a la diskurso,</b> attentive to the
discourse; <b dict-key="surda a la ditresokrii">surda a la ditreso-krii:</b> deaf to the cries of
distress; <b dict-key="amo a Deo">amo a Deo:</b> love to God;<b dict-key="me deziras a vu omna
feliceso"> me deziras a vu omna feliceso:</b> I wish you all happiness; (<i>comparison or
relation</i>) <b dict-key="agreabla a la gusto">agreabla a la gusto:</b> agreeable to the taste;<b
dict-key="ca okupo konvenas ad il"> ca okupo konvenas ad il:</b> this occupation suits him;
(<i>proportion; total</i>) <b dict-key="tri raportas a non quale du a sis">tri raportas a non quale
du a sis:</b> three is to nine as two is to six; <b dict-key="evaluar lua revenuo a franki taxar ol
a franki">evaluar lua revenuo a 10.000 franki; taxar ol a 400 franki:</b> to estimate his income as
(amounting to) 10,000 francs; to tax it at (at the rate of, a total of) 400 francs. Note: <b
dict-key="Ad">Ad</b> is often joined to other prepositions, to verbal roots, adverbs, particularly
to add the idea of motion. &mdash; FILS
