<b dict-key="id">-id-:</b> (<i>suffix</i>) indicating human descendant, as <b
dict-key="Izrael">Izrael-id-o</b>.

<b dict-key="idanto">idant-o:</b> (<i>biol.</i>) germ cell: according to the theories of August
Weismann, the particle which transmits by atavism la particularities of the structure of a living
entity.

<b dict-key="ideo">ide-o:</b> idea; <b dict-key="ideala">-ala:</b> ideal; <b
dict-key="idealo">-alo:</b> an ideal; <b dict-key="idealismo">-al-ismo:</b> idealism; <b
dict-key="idealigar">-al-igar:</b> to idealize; <b dict-key="idealista,ideo">-al-ist-a, -o:</b>
idealistic (person). &mdash; DEFIRS

<b dict-key="identa">ident-a:</b> identical, the (self-) same; <b dict-key="identeso">-eso:</b>
identity, sameness; <b dict-key="identigar">-igar:</b> to identify, to make identical (N.B. not
used for persons: <b dict-key="rikonocar ulu kom ulu">ri-konocar ulu kom ulu</b>). Ex.: Me prestis
a B. la sama libro kam ad A. (t.e. libro tote identa, un libro). La du propozicioni esas identa
l'una a l'altra. &mdash; DEFIRS

<b dict-key="identifikar">identifik-ar:</b> (<i>tr.</i>) to identify, ascertain the identity of.
&mdash; DEFIRS

<b dict-key="ideografio">ideografi-o:</b> ideography; <b dict-key="ideografiajo">-ajo:</b>
idiom-graph, idiogram. &mdash; DEFIRS

<b dict-key="ideogramo">ideogram-o*:</b> ideogram: a picture or symbol in certain writing systems.

<b dict-key="ideologio">ideologi-o:</b> ideology. &mdash; DEFIRS

<b dict-key="idilio">idili-o:</b> (<i>also fig.</i>) idyl; <b dict-key="idiliala,idiliatra">-ala,
-atra:</b> idyllic. &mdash; DEFIRS

<b dict-key="idioblasto">idioblast-o:</b> (<i>bot.</i>) idioblast.

<b dict-key="idiolekto">idiolekt-o*:</b> idiolect: manner of speaking of an individual at a
particular period in the person's life.

<b dict-key="idiomo">idiom-o:</b> idiom, language of a people, tribe, etc. (cf. <b
dict-key="idiotismo">idiotismo</b>); <b dict-key="idiomala">-ala:</b> idiomatic, vernacular,
relative to a particular language; <b dict-key="provincala o lokala,o rurala idiomo">provincala (o
lokala, o rurala) idiomo:</b> patois (cf. <b dict-key="dialekto">dialekto</b>, <b
dict-key="jargono">jargono</b>, <b dict-key="slango">slango</b>); <b dict-key="la Franca idiomo">la
Franca idiomo:</b> the French language. Def.: La linguo propra di ula naciono o regiono. &mdash;
DEFIRS

<b dict-key="idioplasmo">idioplasm-o:</b> (<i>biol.</i>) idioplasm.

<b dict-key="idiota">idiot-a:</b> idiotic, devoid of understanding; <b dict-key="idiot">-(ul)o:</b>
idiot, natural fool (for scientific discussion of meaning, cf. VI-243); <b
dict-key="idiotajo">-ajo:</b> an idiotic act. &mdash; DEFIRS

<b dict-key="idiotismo">idiotism-o:</b> idiotism, idiom, an expression peculiar to itself in
grammatical construction; an expression the meaning of which as a whole cannot be derived from the
conjoined meanings of its elements (cf. <b dict-key="idiomo">idiomo</b>); <b
dict-key="idiotismala">-ala:</b> idiomatic, relating to the grammatical construction of a sentence
(cf. <b dict-key="idiomala">idiom-ala</b>). Dei.: Frazo ne komprenebla per logikal analizo; VI-192.
Ex.: &quot;How do you do&quot; esas Angla idiotismo. &mdash; DEFIRS

<b dict-key="idolo">idol-o:</b> (<i>also fig.</i>) idol; <b dict-key="idolisto">-isto:</b>
idolater; <b dict-key="idoligar">-igar:</b> to idolize; <b dict-key="idolkulto,idolismo">-kulto,
-ismo:</b> idolatry; <b dict-key="idolista,idolkultala">-ista, -kult-ala:</b> idolatrous. &mdash;
DEFIRS
