<b dict-key="kazo">kaz-o:</b> (<i>jur., gram., med. and general</i>) case (N.B. not casing); <b
dict-key="kaze ke">-e ke:</b> (conj.) in case (that); <b dict-key="kazo">-o</b> (o, <b
dict-key="questiono di koncienco">questiono) di koncienco:</b> a case of conscience; <b
dict-key="kazo di pendigo">-o di pendigo:</b> a hanging matter; <b dict-key="segun la kazo">segun
la -o:</b> according to the case; <b dict-key="omnakaze">omna-kaze</b> (o, <b
dict-key="kazsupoze">-supoze</b>): in any case; <b dict-key="takaze">ta-kaze:</b> in that case; <b
dict-key="nulkaze">nul-kaze:</b> in no case; <b dict-key="en omna kazo">en omna kazo:</b> in any
case, in any event; <b dict-key="ni prenos nia parapluvi,kaze ke pluvo rikomencus">ni prenos nia
parapluvi, kaze ke pluvo rikomencus:</b> we will take our umbrellas in case it may rain; <b
dict-key="preparez la chambro por la kazo ke il venus">preparez la chambro por la kazo ke il
venus:</b> prepare a room in case he should come; <b dict-key="en la kazo ke il venoz,enduktez
il">en la kazo ke il venoz, enduktez il:</b> in case he comes, show him in. &mdash; DEFIRS

<b dict-key="kazako">kazak-o:</b> cassock: a large sleeved coat formely worn by soldiers; (woman's)
long jacket (for outdoor wear); <b dict-key="kazaketo">-eto:</b> (woman's) short jacket; (cf. <b
dict-key="sutano">sutano</b>). &mdash; DFIRS

<b dict-key="kazeo">kaze-o:</b> (o, <b dict-key="kremkazeo">krem-kazeo</b>): cream cheese (cf. <b
dict-key="fromajo">fromajo</b>); <b dict-key="kazealtra">-altra:</b> caseous; <b
dict-key="kazeifar">-ifar:</b> to make c.. &mdash; DEFIRS

<b dict-key="kazeino">kazein-o:</b> casein. &mdash; DEFIRS

<b dict-key="kazemato">kazemat-o:</b> (<i>fort.</i>) casemate. &mdash; DEFIRS

<b dict-key="kazerno">kazern-o:</b> barrack (for soldiers); <b
dict-key="enkazernigar">en-kazern-igar:</b> to quater troops in b.s. &mdash; DFIRS

<b dict-key="kazimiro">kazimir-o:</b> (<i>fabric</i>) cassimere, kerseymere. &mdash; DEFIRS

<b dict-key="kazino">kazin-o:</b> casino: assembly room for cardplaying, etc. &mdash; DEFIRS

<b dict-key="kazuala">kazual-a:</b> contingent, casual, fortuitous, precarious; <b
dict-key="kazualo">-o:</b> a contingent thing (as, a prequisite, extra salary, etc.); <b
dict-key="kazuala ofico">-a ofico:</b> office held during pleasure; <b dict-key="kazuala
revenui">-a revenui:</b> incidental revenues; <b dict-key="la kazuali di la paroko">la kazuali di
la paroko:</b> the casual income or fees of the vicar. Def.: <b dict-key="Hazardala,acidentala
acesora">Hazard-ala, acident-ala acesora.</b> &mdash; DEFIS

<b dict-key="kazuaro">kazuar-o:</b> (<i>orni.</i>) cassowary (genus: Casuaris). &mdash; DEFIRSL

<b dict-key="kazuisto">kazuist-o:</b> casuist (in case of conscience). &mdash; DEFIRS

<b dict-key="kazuistiko">kazuistik-o:</b> casuistry: science or doctrine of right and wrong; <b
dict-key="kazuistikacha">-acha:</b> sophistical. &mdash; DEFIRS
