<b dict-key="obcena">obcen-a: </b>obscene. &mdash; DEFIS

<b dict-key="obediar">obedi-ar:</b> (<i>tr.</i>) to obey; <b dict-key="obediesar">-esar:</b> to be
obeyed; <b dict-key="obedi">-(ad)o:</b> obedience, obeying, observance (of a law, command, etc.);
<b dict-key="obediema">-ema:</b> (tendency) obedient. Ex.: La soldato obedias sua chefo. &mdash;
EFIS

<b dict-key="obelisko">obelisk-o:</b> obelisk. &mdash; DEFIRS

<b dict-key="obeza">obez-a:</b> obese (cf. <b dict-key="korpulenta,repleta">korpulenta,
repleta</b>); <b dict-key="obezeso">-eso:</b> obesity. Def.: Qua havas tro abunta graso, precipue
en la ventro: on qualifikas lu vulgare &laquo;ventroza&raquo;. L&rsquo;obezeso esas maladeso e
preske infirmeso; VI-601. &mdash; EFIS

<b dict-key="objecionar">objecion-ar:</b> (<i>tr.</i>) to object: adduce as an objection. Ex.: On
objecionis a Galileo ke, se la tero rotacas &hellip;&nbsp; &mdash; EFIS

<b dict-key="objekto">objekt-o:</b> object: anything that comes within the cognizance of the senses
(cf. <b dict-key="skopo,komplemento">skopo, komplemento</b>); <b dict-key="objektala">-ala:</b>
objective (opp. to <b dict-key="subjektala">subjekt-ala</b>); <b dict-key="objektalo">-alo:</b>
(<i>opt.</i>) object-glass; <b dict-key="objektaleso">-al-eso:</b> objectivity. &mdash; DEFIRS

<b dict-key="oblato">oblat-o:</b> wafer. Def.: Dina tabuleto ek farinpasto (azimo) uzata por siglar
letri. &mdash; DRS

<b dict-key="obleo">oble-o:</b> wafer: a thin pastry. &mdash; FRS

<b dict-key="obligar">oblig-ar:</b> (<i>tr.</i>) to oblige: put (<b dict-key="ulu">ulu</b>) under
obligation to do or not to do something, to bind, constrain (by duty, hono(u)r, etc.) (cf. <b
dict-key="devar,koaktar">devar, koaktar</b>); <b dict-key="obligo,obligeso">-o, -eso:</b>
obligation (imposed by conscience, law, etc.); <b dict-key="obliganta">-anta:</b> obligatory (which
obliges); <b dict-key="obligata">-ata:</b> (which is) obligatory, incumbent; <b dict-key="reciproka
obligeso">reciproka -eso:</b> joint liability, obligation; <b
dict-key="neobligata">ne-oblig-ata:</b> optional; <b dict-key="obligesar ad ulu">obligesar ad
ulu:</b> to be beholden to someone; <b dict-key="obligar ulu per juro">obligar ulu per juro:</b> to
bind a person by oath; <b dict-key="me obligas me facar to">me obligas me facar to:</b> I assume
the obligation, the responsibility to do this. &mdash; DEFIS

<b dict-key="obligaciono">obligacion-o:</b> (<i>fin.</i>) debenture, bond: a legal obligation
(bond) bearing interest; <b dict-key="fervoyala obligacioni">fervoyala -i:</b> railway bonds; <b
dict-key="obligacioniero">-iero: </b>bond-, debenture-holder. &mdash; DEFIRS

<b dict-key="obliqua">obliqu-a:</b> (<i>also anat., gram.</i>) oblique, aslant, slanting;
(<i>fig.</i>) indirect, not straightforward, insincere; <b dict-key="obliqua angulo,lineo">-a
angulo, lineo:</b> oblique angle, line; <b dict-key="oblique tranchar stofo">-e tranchar stofo:</b>
to cut fabric slantingly, on the bias; <b dict-key="ta aleo esas obliqua">ta aleo esas -a:</b> that
lane runs slantingly; (<i>(gram.</i>) -<b dict-key="a kazo">a kazo: </b>oblique case; (<i>fig.</i>)
-<b dict-key="a laudo">a laudo:</b> indirect praise; <b dict-key="obliqua homulo">-a homulo:</b> an
insincere (not straightforward) man. &mdash; EFIS

<b dict-key="obliterar">obliter-ar:</b> (<i>tr.</i>) to obliterate, blot out (little by little or
in a manner to leave traces). V. exp.: Nek <b dict-key="efacar">efacar</b>, nek <b
dict-key="nuligar">nuligar</b>, ma nuligar per signo, qua igas ulo neuzebla (ex. postal marko);
IV-394. Ex.: La censuristo obliteris la enskriburo. &mdash; DEFIS

<b dict-key="obliviar">oblivi-ar:</b> (<i>tr.</i>) to forget (cf. <b
dict-key="neglijar,omisar">neglijar, omisar</b>); <b dict-key="obliviigar">-igar:</b> to cause (<b
dict-key="ulu">ulu</b>) to forget, to cause (<b dict-key="ulo">ulo</b>) to be forgotten (<b
dict-key="da">da</b> <b dict-key="ulu">ulu</b>); <b dict-key="oblivio">-o:</b> forgetting; <b
dict-key="oblivieso">-eso:</b> forgetfulness, oblivion; <b dict-key="su oblivio">su- -o:</b>
self-forgetfulness; <b dict-key="obliviema">-ema:</b> forgetful, oblivious, unmindful; <b
dict-key="obliviokarcero">-o-karcero:</b> oubliette: castle dungeon. &mdash; EFIS

<b dict-key="oblonga">oblong-a:</b> oblong. Def.: Qua esas plu longa kam larja. &mdash; DEFS

<b dict-key="obolo">obol-o:</b> (<i>Gr. coin</i>) obol(us); any of several small European coins;
mite, groat, farthing; a very small sum; <b dict-key="obolo di vidvino">-o di vidvino:</b>
widow&rsquo;s mite. &mdash; DEFIS

<b dict-key="obsedar">obsed-ar:</b> (<i>tr.</i>) to beset: to haunt, importune; to obsess, to
worry; to possess (by fixed ideas); (cf. <b dict-key="persekutar,tedar">persekutar, tedar</b>); <b
dict-key="la kortani obsedas la princo">la kortani obsedas la princo:</b> the courtiers beset the
prince; <b dict-key="la mento ofte obsedesas da sua propra erori">la mento ofte obsedesas da sua
propra erori:</b> the mind is often beset with its own errors; <b dict-key="ca viro obsedas me">ca
viro obsedas me:</b> that man worries me, or, importunes me. V. exp.: Obsedar esas, etimologie,
&laquo;siejar&raquo; persono, t.e. frequentar lu tedante por solicitar lu pri ula kozo, o por vidar
lu nediskrete; figurale, to dicesas pri la pensi, imaji, pasioni qui okupas konstante la mento, e
quin on ne povas repulsar (la remorso obsedas la kriminanto; teroriganta sonji obsedas lu); III-35.
&mdash; EFIS

<b dict-key="observar">observ-ar:</b> (<i>tr.</i>) to observe: look at, watch (with attention and
study); (cf. <b dict-key="obediar,remarker">obediar, remarker</b>); <b dict-key="observo">-o:</b>
observation (<i>of an object</i>); <b dict-key="observanta,observema">-anta, -ema:</b> observing,
observant; <b dict-key="observanto,observero,observisto">-anto, -ero, -isto:</b> lookout, observer;
<b dict-key="observeyo,observposteno">-eyo, -posteno:</b> place of observation, lookout post; <b
dict-key="observebla">-ebla:</b> observable. Ex.: Observar naturo, la irado di la astri, la mori di
la diferenta nacioni. Astronomiala observado. Mento observema. &mdash; DEFIRS

<b dict-key="observatorio">observatori-o:</b> (<i>astron., meteorol.</i>) observatory. &mdash; DEFIS

<b dict-key="obsidiano">obsidian-o:</b> (<i>min.</i>) obsidian: volcanic glass. &mdash; DEFIRS

<b dict-key="obskura">obskur-a:</b> (<i>lit. and fig.</i>) obscure: without sufficient light to
enable one to see objects, gloomy, dim, somber (sombre); not easily understood; little known; (of
colo(u)rs) dark; <b dict-key="obskurigar">-igar:</b> to obscure, dim, darken; <b dict-key="nokto
obskura">nokto -a:</b> a dark night; <b dict-key="stilo obskura">stilo -a:</b> an unclear style; <b
dict-key="vivar obskura vivo">vivar -a vivo:</b> to live an obscure life; <b dict-key="obskureso di
lingui">-eso di lingui:</b> obscurity of language; <b dict-key="la nubi obskurigas la jorno">la
nubi obskur-igas la jorno:</b> the clouds intercept the daylight; <b dict-key="longa frazi
obskurigas la senco">longa frazi obskurigas la senco:</b> long sentences obscure the meaning. Ant.:
<b dict-key="klara">klara. &mdash; </b>DEFIS

<b dict-key="obskurantismo">obskurant-ismo:</b> obscurantism; <b
dict-key="obskurantisto">-isto:</b> obscurantist: one who opposes enlightenment. &mdash; DEFIRS

<b dict-key="obsoleta">obsolet-a:</b> obsolete (words, customs, etc.); <b
dict-key="obsoleteskar">-eskar:</b> to become obsolete; <b dict-key="obsoleteso">-eso:</b>
obsoleteness, desuetude, disuse. Def.: Exter la uzado, la kustumo. &mdash; DEFIS

<b dict-key="obstaklo">obstakl-o:</b> (<i>lit. and fig.</i>) obstacle, hindrance, obstruction,
impediment, bar, clog: that which opposes; <b dict-key="obstaklokuro">-o-kuro:</b> obstacle-race;
<b dict-key="kaval kuro kun obstakli">(kaval-) kuro kun -i:</b> steeple-chase. &mdash; EFIS

<b dict-key="obstetriko">obstetrik-o:</b> (2001) obstetrics. &mdash; EFIS

<b dict-key="obstinar">obstin-ar:</b> (<i>intr.</i>) to be obstinate (<b dict-key="en,pri">en,
pri</b>) to persist, be firmly bent (on); <b dict-key="obstin">-(ad)o:</b> obstinacy, perinacity,
stubborness (cf. <b dict-key="persistemeso">persistem-eso</b>); <b
dict-key="obstinanta,obstinera,obstinema">-anta, -era, -ema:</b> obstinate, self-willed, opiniated,
headstrong, stubborn; <b dict-key="obstinemo">-emo:</b> an obstinate person; <b dict-key="il
obstinas en taco">il obstinas en taco:</b> he keeps obstinately silent; <b dict-key="esar
obstinanta pri projeto nerealigebla">esar obstin-anta pri projeto nerealigebla:</b> to persist in
an impractical project. V. exp.: vid. <b dict-key="insistar">insistar. &mdash; </b>EFIS

<b dict-key="obstruktar">obstrukt-ar:</b> (<i>tr.</i>) to obstruct, block up, choke up; be in the
way of; <b dict-key="obstruktiva">-iva:</b> obstructive. Ex.: Obstruktar voyo, tubo. V. exp.: <b
dict-key="inkombrar">inkombrar. &mdash; </b>DEFIRS

<b dict-key="obtenar">obten-ar:</b> (<i>tr.</i>) to obtain, procure, get (u<b dict-key="lo,de
ulu">lo, de ulu</b>). Ex.: Obtenar favoro de ulu. V. exp.: vid. <b dict-key="recevar">recevar</b>.
&mdash; EFIS

<b dict-key="obturar">obtur-ar:</b> (<i>tr., tech.</i>) to obturate: to stop or close, as an
opening. &mdash; EFIS

<b dict-key="obtuza">obtuz-a:</b> obtuse: blunt, dull, (of edges, angles); (<i>geom.</i>) larger
than a right angle; (<i>fig.</i>) dull (in sensibility, mentality); <b
dict-key="obtuzigar">-igar:</b> to blunt, dull (cf. <b dict-key="senpintigar">sen-pint-igar</b>);
<b dict-key="obtuzangula">-angula:</b> obtuse angular. Ex.: Hakilo obtuza. Il esas homo mente
obtuza. Ant.: <b dict-key="akuta">akuta. &mdash; </b>EFIS

<b dict-key="obuso">obus-o:</b> (<i>artil.</i>) shell; <b dict-key="obuskanono">-kanono:</b>
howitzer (cf. <b dict-key="bombardilo">bombard-ilo</b>). &mdash; FI
